---
layout: post
title: "Enter Stage Left"
wordpress_id: 23
wordpress_url: http://www.wakatara.com/blog/2004/06/11/enter-stage-left/
date: 2012-02-24 02:00:35 +1100
comments: true
tags:
- blogable
---
<p>OK, so I've given in. After being chewed out by friends who had not even<br />
a) realized I had moved to Amsterdam from Paris and <br />
b) moved back to Canada from Amsterdam<br />
(for those of you who never even realized I'd even left Canada, I'm not sure this will matter) , I decided it was just time to take advantage of the blogosphere rather than updating everyone with the same email.</p><p>Why did I resist so long despite the heavy and often mentally abusive lobbying of such blog luminaries as <a href="http://www.livejournal.com/users/giantlaser/">giantlaser</a>  and <a href="http://www.livejournal.com/users/sarahh/">unixgirl</a> ? Well, unlike most bloggers I've been keeping a personal journal for many, many moons (almost 10 years) and only went digital with it about a year or so ago. That was traumatic enough. The idea of moving from private to public and putting stuff online was frankly, well... uncomfortable. I'm kind of a private person. Scarily though, when I first left on my one year, round the world trip (which ended up with me shacking up in Paris for 4 years and a year long stint in Amsterdam before finding out I missed timbits and the smell of snow), I was regularly emailing my friends my little adventures and updates and thinking I could have <i>really</i> used a template-driven automatic posting system to update my website instead of emailing. It got me thinking... then I got distracted by that red-headed Romanian actress in London... This is also the basic recurring reason I am <i>not</i> an Internet millionaire by now in case you were wondering.</p><p>So, besides updating the worldwide rock steady crew, I'd also like to think of this blog as my little travelogue update. You'll basically find here great fodder for my eventual psychiatric institutionalization : what's on my mind, barely lucid ramblings about people, places, things and happenings and the more shareable, less obscene items of my internal monologue and meandering thought processes. This blog is partly to keep up my writing without annoying editorial interference (hear that, Jon ?), part creative outlet, part bulletin board update for my wonderful friends (and sadly misguided enemies), and part shameless, unabashed self promotion. </p><p>And one final hope and sort of Irish blessing for whoever is reading this : I hope that whatever you can take away from what you read here helps you make <i>your</i> life better. I don't care how; take some inspiration, avoid the pointy rocks and sea monsters on your way, expand your mind, chart new seas, make the world a little (or a lot) better or in simply giving you the courage of your convictions to accomplish something you <i>really</i> want to do with your life. Take what you can, use it and go hike the Andes, run with the bulls, walk the desert, swim the shore. Whatever. If reading <i>anything</i> I've said will help you stretch the bounds of your life a bit and <i>live</i> it a bit more than merely existing in it, then I'm a happy blogger (and you owe me a drink when you see me !).</p><p>So, watch this space.</p>
